steven phillips ( brooks ) is sitting in a posh restaurant with a young studio executive that says he's lost his edge . " what can i do to fix it ? " brooks asks , but he says it's beyond fixing . " but i just got the humanitarian award ! " he fires back , " oh come on , everyone gets that . " the muse is a perfect example of the way that young hollywood stars and executives are shaping what type of movies that we see in the next millennium . it also shows what this young movement does to the aging workers who've been there awhile . when steven sees a mysterious woman getting into a cab when he comes to ask his friend jack warrick ( jeff bridges ) for advice he at first begins to think that he is having an affair . but in his desperation , jack feels sorry for him and tells him that she is a muse . a muse is a child of zeus and is supposed to inspire all creativity . ( just a little update for those of us who didn't pay attention in history . ) steven decides to consult the muse , ( stone ) who turns to want more than anybody in hollywood are paying for their services . decked out in a four seasons suite , she makes him be at her beck and call , in exchange he's starting to form an idea about a jim carrey comedy in a water park . she also helps inspire steven's wife laura ( andie mcdowell ) to become the next mrs . fields . she two investigators of a local mentor hospital show up at the front door looking for her . . . they begin to wonder . the film turns in a great performance by stone . her wackiness reminded me of some of her craziness scenes in casino . albert brooks also turns in a fine screenplay that constantly moving and funny . but the film also raises the idea of what will happen when the sarah michelle gellar's of today turn 30 ? what will happen to the industry then ? if your looking for a fun film to see , go out and see the muse which gets * * * stars . the young-uns : the film contains a brief view of sharon stone's butt . good age 7 & up a review by frankie paiva the 12 year-old movie reviewer e-mail me at swpstke@aol . com visit my website at : http : //expage . com/page/teenagemoviecritic 
