lili taylor nabbed one of her first lead roles in this true life drama about valerie jean solanas , the woman who shot andy warhol in 1968 . but the film is more of a showcase to the ways of the 60s and the influence that warhol and other artists had on the people at that time . valerie jean solanas ( taylor ) is a lesbian feminist who as written a book called scum manifesto , a book ( which is now a classic ) about the way that men ( like disease , or so she says ) have been ruling here for the millions of years before us . she tries to sell it on the street , and is thrilled when her drag queen friend is invited to andy warhol's pad . this is her chance to sell him not only on the book , but on some plays that she has been writing . but andy is just like all of the other men out there . when a publisher signs her to a fraud contract and a friend puts her on a television show discussing homosexuality where the host makes fun of her , she begins to think that andy is all behind it . he's been constantly ignoring and making fun of her and she doesn't like it . her increasing rage is about to bring on the deadliest of consequences . lili taylor gives the performance of her career ( at least so far ) she puts every ounce that she can into this character and it's a great treat to watch . flaws are abound however , most of the film is boring and needs something interesting to be put on the screen and the story was told harsher than it needs to be . still , the film does a good job of examining the inner rage that overcame the woman and her actions thereafter . if your looking for a cool 60s noir piece , rent i shot andy warhol , which gets * * * stars . the young-uns : the main character is lesbian and we see one lesbian encounter . she is also a prostitute and we see two ( not very explicit ) sex scenes of her servicing her customers . it also contains strong language and drug use . good age : 16 & up a review by frankie paiva the 12 year-old movie reviewer e-mail me at swpstke@aol . com visit my website at : http : //expage . com/page/teenagemoviecritic 
