starring-brendan fraser , rachel weisz , john hannah and arnold vosloo director-stephen sommers rated 14a movie views by jamey hughton : http : //welcome . to/movieviewswhat do you get when you combine old fashioned indiana jones-style adventure with modernized special effects ? well , the result would look something like the mummy . sort of . for hidden behind all the action , gun-fire and spiritual malarkey you'd expect lies a very goofy foundation . as the opening scene suggests , this remake often relies on self-parody and comic timing just as much as it does with it's adventurous tone . the movie begins in ancient egypt , where a priest named imhotep ( arnold vosloo ) is fooling around with the pharaoh's daughter . the grisly consequences entail that imhotep be wrapped in bandages and incarcerated for eternity in his tight-fitting sarcophagus . he is buried with a terrible curse : anyone who wakes him will suffer the 10 plagues of egypt , and will be used as spare parts for reanimation purposes . sure enough , in 1920 , two expedition teams have set out to find the treasure at humunaptra ( the legendary `city of the dead' ) . one is led by rick o'connell ( brendan fraser ) , a rag-tag legion soldier who knows how to handle himself . accompanying him is a hieroglyphics-reading librarian ( rachel weisz ) and her smart-mouth brother ( john hannah ) . then , of course , they awake the title character . soon enough , flesh-eating scarab-beetles , pesky locusts and walking corpses are after them , and imhotep is out to reconstruct himself and resurrect his mummified bride . the special effects in the mummy are not seamlessly blended into the atmosphere , but they are rather excellent ; the `wall of sand' effect towards the finale is particularly effective . fraser looks surprisingly suited to this newfound role , and watching his form strikes just the right balance in this ridiculously enjoyable adventure/comedy/romance/horror- yes , it's complete funhouse of a movie . director stephen sommers is much better when it comes to adventure ( the jungle book ) than horror ( deep rising ) , which is why i am glad he put such a unique spin on this classic remake . the jokes fly fast and furious , mostly derived from hannah's spirited performance and the presence of kevin j . o'connor as the leader of the second expedition . i'm embarrassed to say it , but i did laugh more than once . okay , several times . even so , the consistent , familiar punchlines grow seriously old as the movie progresses . the mummy is just stupid fun , no more . fraser has battles with the bandaged monsters , slicing off limbs with a delightful goofiness that seems closely akin to sam raimi's evil dead movies . if you want a blockbuster full of thrills and chills , this is not the movie to see . the mummy is silly , stereotypical , but above all , it's totally enjoyable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . movie views by jamey hughton : http : //welcome . to/movieviews 
