can't hardly wait is supposed to bring back the teen comedy , the days where virginity was discussed in detention , where sean penn was a skateboard dude , where angry vice-principals tracked you down on your sick days . while the film does some of this , it's really putting a modern twist on what we have seen over and over again . the setting is perfect , the girl who's party it is ( an aptly named character along with creative ones such as boy who steals everything and ready to have sex girl ) holds a bash on graduation night with her parents away from home , it's a must-come event and every member of the student body will be there . enter our hero , preston ( embry ) he's been lovestruck by prom queen amanda ( jennifer love hewitt , who seems to be content not running from ben willis ) and decides to finally tell her how he feels . love adopts her quiet , popular girl role of the recently dumped ( by a full-of-himself jock named mike played by peter facinelli ) well , but she adds tones of drama that aren't needed . accompanying him is denise ( ambrose , who's great , what else has she been in ? ) she's goth outcast without the makeup who gets stuck in a bathroom with kenny ( seth green ) a white homeboy , obsessed with being black . also in for the ride is william ( charlie korsmo ) school nerd who attempts to gain revenge against mike by taking polaroids of him with one of his friends in a naked embrace . great cameos are also present , with jerry o'connell , selma blair , melissa joan hart ( who could have been more in the movie to give it more of a satire feel ) and jenna elfman as a stripper . yes , you heard me correctly , jenna elfman is a stripper . i have awarded this film the consistency ( please tell me i spelled that right ) award of 1998 . it's a film that you'll discover something new about after every repeated viewing . however it is a tad contrived , and just a bit predictable . but the film embraces it's spirit making this light-hearted romantic comedy a sure one to go see . 
