don't you love it how low budget independent movies absolutely amaze you every so often ? " swingers " is that kind of movie . with a hilarious witty plot , and great acting , i fell in love with this little gem . not since watching " reservoir dogs " have i ever seen a low budget independent ( and under hyped ) flick that i enjoyed this much . " swingers " tells the story of young l . a . twenty something guys , who , among other activities , cruise for dates and love . they hit on women at bars , they swagger and act tough . they constantly talk to each other ( in rapid fire woody allen talk no less ) about the art of picking up women . the irony of " swingers " though , is that these guys are a hopeless case in finding love , women are usually repelled away from their machismo , not attracted to it . it's a great and witty plot , and watching these guys stumble over themselves is wonderful . in addition , the male stars of the movie , mike ( jon favreau ) , trent ( vince vaughn ) , rob ( ron livingston ) and sue ( patrick van horn ) all act wonderfully . whether it's mike ranting and raving about his ex-girlfriend , or trent comparing the directors scorcese and tarentino to each other , or sue playing far too competitively in a video game , it's hilarious . finally , little touches in the movie made it even more interesting to me . for example , in one of the funnier scenes of the movie , we watch mike completely blow a potential date by leaving message after message on her answering machine late at night . later on , when mike gets another lucky phone number , if the audience pays close attention they can see that the camera angles , music , etc . is exactly the same as in the earlier scene botched by mike . it's a great idea , as the audience can't help but cringe at the possibility of poor mike screwing up his chance for love again . in addition , we see several nods to tarentino's " reservoir dogs " , whether a poster of " mr . blonde " in the background , or a spoof of " reservoir dogs " 's famous slow motion intro sequence . finally , the movie wraps up neatly with a cool and well done ending . all in all , " swingers " blows away the far majority of any " blockbusters " that have come out this summer . i highly recommend it . nick's rating : + 4 ( highly recommended ) movies rated from -4 ( worst ) to + 4 ( best ) , 0 = average rating * * * 
