 cast : jim henson ( kermit the frog/rowlf/dr . teeth/waldorf ) , frank oz ( miss piggy/fozzie bear/animal/sam the eagle ) , charles durning ( doc hopper ) , austin pendleton ( max ) , milton berle ( mad man mooney ) , mel brooks ( professor max krassman ) , james coburn ( el sleezo cafe owner ) , dom deluise ( bernie - the hollywood agent ) , elliott gould ( beauty contest compere ) , bob hope ( ice cream vendor ) , cloris leachman ( lord's secretary ) , steve martin ( insolent waiter ) , richard pryor ( balloon vendor ) , telly savalas ( el sleezo tough ) , orson welles ( lord lew ) , carroll spinney ( big bird ) certification : g the muppet movie is the first , and the best movie among the ever-growing list of muppet movies . the muppet movie tells the story of how our hero , kermit the frog , came to be a star . a delightful movie for all ages , the muppet movie is * bursting * with cameo appearances by countless hollywood stars of the 80's and today . the muppet movie begins in a movie theater , where all of the muppet stars are anxiously awaiting the first showing . once everyone is settled down , the movie inside of the movie begins . it starts out with kermit in a swamp , playing his banjo and singing ( this shot required jim henson to spend hours underwater ) . kermit is discovered by bernie , a big-time hollywood agent who happens upon kermit by accident . bernie believes that kermit holds much potential to become a big star in hollywood . kermit ponders the idea of becoming a big movie star , where he could " make millions of people happy " . kermit decides to leave his swamp and make the trip out to hollywood . along the way , kermit befriends his now famous muppet companions , beginning with fozzie bear , who had been spending his days doing stand-up comedy at the el sleezo cafe , owned by james coburn . the two decide to team-up and continue on their way to hollywood . but , doc hopper ( charles durning ) , the owner of a chain of french fried frog leg restaurants has a different idea . he wants kermit to be his spokesman , but kermit is humiliated at the idea and spends the movie avoiding him and his assistants . the trip continues , with kermit and fozzie meeting miss piggy , rowlf , gonzo , the electric mayhem band , and more muppets who all share the same wish : to make it to hollywood . oh , and even more celebrities continue to appear . kermit and miss piggy continue to get to know each other a little better , including a rather funny scene at a restaurant with steve martin as the waiter . eventually , kermit and the group make it to hollywood . that is , after kermit is finally able to elude doc hopper and proclaim his freedom . lord lew , a big-time hollywood producer portrayed by orson welles , gives kermit his shot at stardom and gives him the go-ahead to produce a movie . the muppet movie is definitely a movie that is fun for all ages . it is also a sure-deal as one parents can watch , and enjoy along with their kids .  * david landers - dml@gwis . com - http : //www . gwis . com/~dml/ *  
