the presence ( 1992 ) a film review by justin felix . copyright 1999 justin felix . any comments about this review ? contact me at justinfelix@yahoo . com all of my film reviews are archived at http : //us . imdb . com/m/reviews_by ? justin + felix written by william bleich . directed by tommy lee wallace . starring gary graham , kathy ireland , and june lockhart . rated pg-13 ( contains violence ) 97 mins . synopsis : a whole bunch of people flee an unspecified country and an unspecified skirmish in a plane . they crashland near an unspecified island , where they discover that an unspecified group of scientists working for unspecified employers have experimented with biological weapons . comments : even though the presence is packaged as a real movie with a real movie rating ( pg-13 ) , it becomes patently obvious early on that this is a made-for-tv movie , and if you stick around until the end of the credits , you'll discover that nbc was responsible for this fluff . it's not bad fluff really , as far as cheesy science fiction and tv movies go . corny dialogue and poor acting are plentiful , so you'll have lots to laugh at . if not , the creature at the end of the film will make you chuckle : a slow-moving guy in a rubber suit slightly reminiscent of the gill man in the 1950s classic creature from the black lagoon . as i said , this is nbc's version of a science fiction thriller , and what a version it is ! the presence opens with bikini-clad supermodels who read shakespeare's the tempest during a photo shoot in what is apparently a war zone . most of the film takes place on a giant island with huge research facilities which haven't been touched since the mid-1970s and some sort of native tribe who , despite their primitive ways , can produce supermodels with surprisingly well-conditioned hair . and through it all , an aged june lockhart ( from the old lost in space tv series ) stands around and offers to make coffee . this is a very , very bad movie , but a fairly fun and funny b-movie . wipe the dust off this box at your local video store and check it out . 
