meg ryan is kathleen kelly , the owner of the cute children's book store , shop around the corner . it is a business that has been going on for years , and was previously owned by her mother . kathleen is a sweet , funny , nice type of person who loves kids . one of her favorite things to do is log on to american online . her screen name is shopgirl . she chats with someone named ny152 every day , and they are the greatest of friends . they don't go into specifics , but they just have a simple friendship . but now , the shop around the corner is having a problem . a store called fox books has moved in right across the street ! it is owned by joe fox . ( tom hanks ) this store is huge , with many floors of books and magazines . their goal is to put every bookstore in new york city out of business . joe fox also loves american online . there , he chats with a girl named shopgirl . they are the best of friends but they don't take their friendship into specifics . he knows nothing about her . his screen name is ny152 . he meets kathleen kelly at the shop around the corner when he is trying to buy out their inventory of books that fox books doesn't have . he simply states his name is joe . they continue to meet around the city and she discovers that he is joe fox , the man that is going to put her out of business . the two of them still don't know that they are in love on america online . they fight and fight and fight whenever they see each other . these arguments are quite humourous . ny152 asks shopgirl if they should meet . they plan to meet at the coffee shop . shopgirl is waiting and waiting at a table with a present for ny152 . when ny152 discovers that shopgirl is kathleen kelly , he freaks out , for he is joe fox . he enters the coffee shop not telling her who he is . he simply sits down and annoys her to death . he doesn't mean to , but she takes it that way . now that he knows that they are actually perfect for each other , he is extra nice to her . the next day he brings her flowers and stays in her apartment and chats with her for awhile . eventually , he asks shopgirl to meet again over america online . they do , and they discover that they were in love the entire time . kathleen simply states " i wanted it to be you . " you've got mail is a nice , cute movie with some good laughs . tom hanks and meg ryan are so wonderful together . both did great jobs of acting . you've got mail shows that sometimes if you look beyond the business in people , they may be just right for you . although at some points in the movie , it seemed a little slow , the overall product was great . warner brothers is out of the slump and definitely has a hit . america online is supporting this movie a great deal . they even have a feature where you can e-mail tom hanks and meg ryan under their screen names in the movie . parker posey , dave chapelle , and greg kinnear also have smaller supporting rolls . parker posey plays joe's girlfriend , dave chapelle plays his friend , and greg kinnear plays kathleen's boyfriend . the bottom line : not oscar material , but a wonderful movie for all of you aol lovers out there . 
