as far as the obligatory james bond theme song goes , the one here , by paul mccartney and wings ( not the dreaded four-times-a- day-on-usa sitcom ) , is by far the best . ( don't tell me those swedish meatballs a-ha even come close with " the living daylights . " ) also , live and let die brags the accomplishment of having more black people than the other seventeen bond movies combined . it's kind of sad , actually , to have to hear james bond being referred to as " honkey " and " cue ball " while in harlem . ( you wouldn't think a white guy would get that kind of treatment in harlem , but oh how the times have changed . ) this dramatic shift in focus is most likely the result of louis farrakhan replacing david duke as executive producer of the bond series . that's not the only replacement we see in live and let die . roger moore replaces sean connery as 007 , beginning a seven- movie run extending through 1985's a view to a kill . moore , naturally , doesn't completely capture the smooth , debonair feel connery put forth in his six outings as the secret agent , but he does assume the role surprisingly well . he'd almost be on the same level as connery if not for the fact that he reminds me so much of adam west , tv's batman . or is it just my imagination running away with me ? the plot mixes the typical drug lord scenario with voodoo , shifting from harlem to san monique to new orleans in pursuit of mr . big . solitaire , bond's third girl of the movie , is a tarot card reader . bond stacks a deck of cards with " the lovers " in an attempt to poke her . ( get it ? cards . poker . ) he takes her virginity away , which in turn takes away her magical ability to read the future . ( she should have seen it coming , i say . ) so was it worth it , mr . bond ? huh ? just so she could be your 863rd conquest ? live and let die is entertaining in two ways . first , it works as a straight action movie almost the entire time . the only lapse is an overlong boat chase in which bumbling redneck sheriff pepper ( whose brother is a sergeant ) is introduced as some kind of comic relief , trying to capture bond and his pursuers . second , live and let die is more dated than most other bond movies , especially with its introduction of jive talkin' , bushy-sideburned blaxploitation villains , giving it an unintended camp hilarity . visit the movie critic at large website at http : //www . missouri . edu/~c667778/movies . html 
