dawson's creek resident hunk james van der beek goes from playing a sensitive school kid tackling some of life's riddles on the small screen to a sensitive kid tackling some of life's ironies on the big screen in his first major feature film role . on the surface varsity blues is another movie about football and the pressures of competing . however , director brian robbins ( good burger , etc ) and writer w peter iliff ( patriot games , point break , etc ) give the film a more human aspect that will appeal to those not normally attracted towards sports oriented movies . varsity blues also deals with teenage angst , the problems of parental expectations , and the decisions they are often forced to make that will shape their lives forever . everything in the small texan town of west canaan revolves around the local high school team . disillusioned fathers live vicariously through their son's achievements on the football field , while the whole town basks in the glory of their triumphs . even the town sheriff overlooks many of their high-spirited pranks . however , for jon moxon ( van der beek ) , football has lost that element of pure fun that he and his team mates enjoyed as children . he doesn't buy into the football as a metaphor for life angle espoused by ruthless coach bud kimble ( jon voight ) . kimble is a legend in the town for his on field success , although that has come at a high price . mox believes that there is life beyond football , and that winning is not everything . of course , mox's indifference towards football brings him into conflict with the arrogant kimble . we don't learn much about kimble's personal life , as we only see him in his office , cluttered with trophies , and on the field . then we realise , somewhat sadly , that , for him , football and coaching is his life . while reluctantly warming the bench awaiting his chance to play , he reads kurt vonnegut . kimble's star players are forced to use pain killing injections to prolong their time of the field . after lance breaks a leg after a fierce tackle , mox is promoted to quarterback , and becomes the new star of the team . at first , he has trouble coping with the instant fame and adulation , and loses direction for a while . his new found fame also threatens his relationship with julie ( amy smart ) , who doesn't like football jocks . eventually , mox manages to put everything back into perspective and attempts to remain true to his own values . varsity blues has plenty of bone crunching football action , but it is mox's off field struggle with some of life's complex questions that will sustain the interest . the hunky van der beek will obviously be one of the main attractions for audiences . however , veteran voight weighs in with another intense , oily performance as the obsessed and driven coach , and brings some bite to the clichéd part . relative newcomers scott caan and paul walker are also solid as two of mox's team mates . ron lester ( from good burger ) brings a poignant touch to his role as the overweight but genial giant billy bob . varsity blues is a strong and unusually sophisticated film for adolescents that delivers some important messages . it also proves that teen movies are capable of more than just ribald comedies and slasher flicks . 
