drew barrymore has had a very good year . first , she did the wedding singer with adam sandler , and then she carried her own movie , ever after . both were huge winners at the box office . now she brings us home fries , a romantic comedy costarring catherine o'hara and luke wilson . luke wilson isn't the biggest name in hollywood or anything , but he is still a good actor . he and barrymore are dating in real life , after meeting on the set of this cute movie . barrymore stars as sally , a worker at a restaurant called burger matic . she is pregnant from the affair she had with a man named henry . henry's son , dorian ( luke wilson ) , and his other son , angus ( jake busey ) , accidentally kill their father by giving him a heart attack . their mother put them up to this because he had an affair with another woman . on the radio in the helicopter , they hear fast food workers on interference and figure that they know . so , dorian gets a job at burger matic , the same place where sally works , the woman who had an affair with his father . ok , right now , you are probably very lost , but so was i . as the movie goes on , dorian and sally fall in love , not knowing that sally is also in love with dorian's father . when dorian's mother ( catherine o'hara ) commands angus and dorian to kill sally , ( she finds out from pictures who the woman is ) dorian must stop them before the love of his life is killed . home fries has a very weird and original plot , not like any other movie i have ever seen . that really boosts a movie to a high level . drew barrymore gives an outstanding performance , her best since scream . this movie should boost luke wilson to a star level . catherine o'hara gives a very fake performance that was hard to believe . jake busey was very annoying and i wanted him to go away . shelley duvall did great , and you really believed how her character was feeling . home fries was also suspenseful in it's own way . i wanted certain things to happen and i couldn't tell if they were going to or not . there were a lot of laughs in home fries , but not crack up funny ones . home fries is a cute , small movie , which should make some pretty good money at the box office , but it wont be a blockbuster . it should keep some people just entertained . it is a very simple movie , nothing really complex about it ( except the plot ) . home fries was a really nice movie to watch on thanksgiving , and i enjoyed it a lot . 
