as south park : bigger , longer and uncut opens , the citizens of the famous mountainside town are celebrating life's good fortune . the birds are chirping , the sun is shining , and the friendly inhabitants are smiling gleefully as they skip down the street to an upbeat tune . enter the foursome of cartman , kyle , stan and kenny , the infamous group of elementary school children that the tv show is based upon . they see an ad bearing the names of their favorite fart-lighting duo of terrance and phillip , who are appearing in their very first feature length movie ( a canadian production ) . and so they venture forth to the local cineplex , where they are shamefully turned down from seeing this graphic , r-rated feature . after bribing a homeless man to accompany them as their `parental guardian' , the boys make it in to watch the movie , unaware that the profane language they learn will soon thereafter destroy their quiet and peaceful town . south park is a tv show that grew immensely popular on comedy central . mostly , of course , with the less demanding younger viewers , who found the idea of swearing and offensive cardboard children to be just their cup of tea . now that co-creators trey parker and matt stone are free of their television rating confines , they have pushed the envelope as far as it can possibly go . the south park movie is more raunchy , vulgar and repeatedly crude than anything you have probably ever seen . the obscenities flow so consistently that unwilling viewers may be scarred for life , left to babble on in profane gibberish . the reason the film exists is that parker and stone can take revenge on the mpaa ( that's the motion picture association of america ) , with whom they've experienced a complicated past . but , they won't stop there . how many groups , minorities and individuals does the south park movie stab in the back ? with the exception of the mpaa , there is ( ahem * ) black people , jewish people , gay people , anne murray , celine dion , jar jar binks , the baldwin brothers , saddam hussein , brian boitano , bill gates , barbara streisand , and most blatantly of all : canada ! parker and stone have cross-referenced all the inventive ways to make fun of we canadians , from speech patterns to flag-wearing and beyond . it would be advisable for anyone who is easily offended to avoid this film , at all costs . but back to the plot . after the south park children begin to utter shocking four-letter words as part of their regular vocabulary , the mothers take action . forming mac ( mothers against canada ) , they take their case to president clinton , forcing him to proclaim war on the neighboring country for polluting the american children's minds with their obscene movie productions . terrance and phillip are thereby scheduled to be executed , with a pre-celebrity bash including winona ryder and big gay al . the south park children decide to band together , stop the bloodbath , and save the lives of their acting icons before all is lost . let me first say that i laughed . lord help me , i nearly busted a gut during some uproarious musical numbers . yes , in case you didn't know already , the south park movie is basically a feature-length animated musical . the lyrics are often side-splitting and many of the songs have an enjoyable beat , especially the re-enactment of the widely cherished `kyle's mom's a b--ch' , performed with eager enthusiasm by cartman himself . as a sub-plot , kenny sets himself on fire while attempting to light his own fart , and descends to hell . there he meets satan , who is having a heated affair with none other than saddam hussein . for such ( intentionally ) crummy animation , there are some impressive computer-generated visuals down below . unfortunately , this and many other offensive scenarios are almost too eager to cross the line into disgusting vulgarity . south park : bigger , longer and uncut nearly received an nc-17 from the mpaa , and for good reason ; this film is not for young audiences . while a half-hour episode is nicely filling , the 90-minute movie begins to lose fuel as it nears the conclusion . but some sequences are so hilarious , and some pop culture references so cleverly placed , you just have to appreciate the effort . south park : bigger , longer and uncut breaks every rule in the book , and if you have the courage , you just might find it entertaining . 
