ah , the family classic kazaam , starring that ever popular shaquille o'neal , once a big basketball star . space jam was a hit with michael jordan , why not have other players act ? that ever popular movie about shaq being a genie in a bottle made $18 million , and it's time to do a sequel . ( note on above paragraph : anyone reading the above paragraph and thought that i was actually serious should seek medical help immediately by going to www . shrink . com ) how many times does it take those dumb studio executives to figure out that something doesn't work ? if o'neal's movie premiere , kazaam , which made the internet movie database's top 10 worst films of the 90s than why make another movie starring this tall basketball hero ? what is an extremely poor rehash ( it almost gets the same treatment that this summer's other comic book to screen dissapointment spawn got ) of a great old comic book , turns into a violent , cheesy , and inane chase through a city of bad guys . the evil nathaniel burke ( judd nelson ) purposefully shoots fellow officer susan sparks ( gish ) with an overpowered weapon right in front of john henry irons ( o'neal , his name is henry irons and steel , get it ? ) on the testing field . he's some type of psychotic maniac and plans to reek hell on the world by letting everyone feel his pain . when susan becomes confined to a wheelchair , john helps her on her road to recovery . but all is not well , burke has decided to sell the powerful weapons on the black market and hires unknowingly naive young african-americans to sell them for him . but , ( and i hope your sitting down ) my god , he's captured john's baby brother ! this prompts him to turn into a superhuman metal man with a cool suit and plenty of interesting gadgets . an action film easily more forgettable than batman & robin . at least batman had some flashly effects and cool scenes . this film is filled with countless scenes that are so bad , it almost appears as if some of the actors are holding back their laughter . another thing that makes it bad is the fact that we a supposed to actually care for all of these characters when they are placed into danger , even though we know that they cannot possibly die because this is a run-of-the mill action flick . this is another film to see if you enjoy inflicting pain on yourself , and i give it * star . the young-uns : this film contains lots of violence and showcases it as a way of solving problems , it glorifies this is many ways . however , it's not as nearly as violent as many other action films your child's already seen . good age : 11-12 additional note : this film also made the internet movie database's top 10 worst films of the 90s . 
