a secret society so powerful it can get away with murder . a secret society so exclusive it firebrands everyone who joins with its mark . a secret society so secret . . . it has a big logo up on top of the building ! ? you know something is rotten with the skulls right from the get-go . i mean , what self-respecting prep school-ivy league snob would join an organization with a name as stupid as " the skulls " ? well , luke ( joshua jackson ) would be , for one . only he's no preppie . he's a " townie " with no money , but even though he's of the lower classes , since he's such a good rower ( yes , " the skulls , " i get it ) , he's a shoo-in for the secret society . a mysterious invitation arrives , and luke is whisked into a world of power and money , where men in red robes usher in beautiful women for the taking at tuxedoed parties . before you can utter " fidelio , " luke has become one of them . luke is soon partnered with a " soul mate " ( not making that up ) , caleb mandrake ( meet the deedles' paul walker ) with whom he is supposed to keep no secrets . but uh-oh ! when luke's roommate gets jealous and threatens to expose the entire society when he steals caleb's key to the secret chambers ( remember , that big skull on the roof points the way in ) . a cover-up ensues and luke romances " popular " star leslie bibb , and then come a grand series of plot twists so asinine you'll want to join in with the laughter and mockery of the audience if only doing so didn't make this movie even worse . its desperate earnestness makes it even more laughable ( with none other than craig t . " coach " nelson lording over it all ) , and by the time 45 minutes are up , you'll probably be ready to leave . i know i was . unfortunately , teens don't read movie reviews , so this critique will likely be lost on anyone who cares . would that they would put their collective foot down . the last thing we need is another bad movie that simply serves as an excuse to sell a soundtrack . 
