outside providence ( m ) . ( miramax/village roadshow ) director : michael corrente stars : shawn hatosy , alec bladwin , amy smart , tommy bone , jonathan brandis , jon abrahams , adam la vorgna , gabriel mann , jack ferver , jesse leach , kristen shorten , alex toma , george wendt , tim crowe , george martin , richard jenkins , mike cerrone , robert turano . set in pawtucket , rhode island , in 1974 , outside providence is a sensitive but largely uninspiring coming of age tale about a teenage slacker from the wrong side of the tracks who eventually finds wisdom . somewhat surprisingly , this sensitive coming of age tale comes from bobby and peter farrelly , the film making siblings better known for their deliberately dumb and low brow sense of humour that shaped the clever and hilarious there's something about mary and dumb and dumber . outside providence centres around 17 year old tim dunphy ( shawn hatosy , recently seen in the faculty , etc ) , affectionately known as " dildo " by his gruff , embittered , widowed working class father ( alec baldwin ) . tim protects his wheelchair-bound younger brother jackie ( tommy bone ) , and hangs out with his slacker mates ( including an almost unrecognisable jonathan brandis , best known for his role in seaquest ) . his father plays cards and drinks beers with his close mates , while they discuss such world shattering events as watergate and whether or not rock hudson is gay . following a minor traffic accident in which he rear ends a police car while driving without a licence and engulfed in a fugue of drug smoke , tim is promptly packed off to cornwall , an exclusive preparatory academy . a misfit and a rebel , he struggles against the strict rules and regulations of the college , and clashes with his humourless dormitory head . much of the film also focuses on his developing relationship with the beautiful jane ( amy smart , from varsity blues , etc ) , who attends the nearby girl's school . outside providence is based on peter farrelly's own semi-autobiographical novel , although the material lacks anything of real substance or interest to say . the brothers put their predilection for crass toilet humour and hilarious sight gags on hold , for the duration . they have handed over directorial chores to co-writer michael corrente ( american buffalo , etc ) , who brings a touch of restraint and sensitivity to the material . lacking eye catching gags about zippers , hair gel , flatulence and dead dogs , outside providence is a rather straightforward and bland tale that ultimately lacks broad appeal . it's difficult to feel any sense of empathy towards the characters and their exploits . the performances from the young , largely unknown cast are solid . hatosy makes the most of his role as the likeable rogue , but he occasionally struggles with the uninteresting material . cast largely against type , baldwin delivers a restrained but insightful and sensitive performance as tim's gruff but ultimately understanding father , and he brings more complexity to the role than was originally on paper . outside providence is strongly reminiscent of richard linklater's 1993 slacker generation comedy dazed and confused , although it lacks the same wicked , anarchic edge . the film also lacks anything of real substance or interest to say . director corrente fails to imbue this disappointing blend of comedy and drama with any real sense of nostalgia , apart from the superb soundtrack of early '70's hits that will strike a chord with audiences old enough to remember those halcyon days . 
