capsule : trashy , insanely stupid keenan ivory wayans vehicle . the title is exactly the obverse of what it should be . most wanted is a stupid and incompetent movie that ineptly mixes-and-matches several other genres , and come up with cold porridge . we get political conspiracy , the death row secret team , a journalist looking for a hot story , and god knows what else . jon voight in a general's outfit , too , but the movie is inept on so many levels that i was snickering at the sight of him by the twenty-minute mark . the movie makes its foolishness plain right away . sgt . james dunn ( wayans ) , court-martialed for a bit of gulf war righteousness that would not have even made it to court-martial in any other movie , is sentenced to die . he's yanked off death row at the behest of lt . col . grant casey ( voight ) , who wants to assemble a top-secret special ops squad . since dunn is legally dead , he makes a perfect candidate . unfortunately , the first mission he's on turns out to be a covert assassination of the first lady , and he's framed for the murder . however , there's a videotape of the whole thing , and so off he goes after it . all of this is over- and under-scored by a conspiracy plot that's both implausible and painfully convoluted . we also get yet another confirmation of the character-economy law -- the one person who just seems to be standing around with his thumb in his ear , isn't . i shy at having to discuss a film this painfully bad in detail , but i'll try . let's see . among the ridiculous scenes : a moment where dunn confronts the woman with the tape , then moves closer to her , murmuring , " man , i haven't had a piece of * that * in years . . . " and then reaches for a pizza box behind her . groan , groan . even worse is a chase scene -- is that the right word ? -- where everyone and his brother recognizes dunn on the street and starts following him ( much to the dismay of traffic all across the city ) . i wondered if we were looking at an outtake from it's a mad , mad , mad , mad world . there is * one * good thing in the movie . exactly one -- no more , no less . it is paul sorvino's performance as a cia man ( although they give him an opening scene where he's feeding the ducks , and they have him mouth dialogue that's an utter embarrasement to an actor as good as him ) . sorvino has a scene which so far outshines the rest of the movie , in fact , they could have built a whole new story around it . it turns out one of his men is a traitor , and when he learns this , he gives the man a talking-to that has real truth in it , and which almost makes the movie worth sticking it out for to hear . almost . 
