shining in such classics as willy wonka and the chocolate factory and young frankenstein , gene wilder is easily a big pull for renting a comedy movie . there's just something different ( and funny ) about his voice , his face , and his physical humor . that's how start the revolution without me grabbed me off the comedy shelf , and i'm here to help you through not letting that happen to you . philippe ( wilder ) and pierre ( sutherland ) are rich french gentlemen . they have to make some type of agreement on a treaty and are traveling to france to do just that . when they dock , they do battle with a group of homeless pirates ( or something of the sort ) that claude ( wilder again ) and charles ( sutherland again ) are a part of . claude and philippe were separated at birth , the same with pierre and charles . so , naturally , the two get mixed up and are mistaken for the other two . when claude is taken to the king's palace and asked by the king's servant the kill the queen , the two have to escape and are sent into a madcap run around the house ( ? ) avoiding a maniac , a nymphomaniac , ( ? ) and the rest of the king's servants . they somehow start a war with the homeless pirates again that philippe and pierre are now ( unwillingly ) a part of , and they go to battle . i think that i laughed exactly twice in start the revolution without me . the film obviously has some problems , the main one being that wilder ( and the script ) go way over-the-top with the stupid quota on this one . it takes the fact that the twins are mixed up as the film's 100 minute joke . it also doesn't really help seeing what donald sutherland looked like when he was younger either . ( i actually do feel very sorry for him . ) but the worst thing is that the film breaks an alltime rule . any film with orson welles is either good or funny . horribly broken here as he appears for commentry before the film and as part of the film's extremely strange ending . ( that amazingly ends like some film with hair gel and a dog . ) this is a member of the film's that you could see if you enjoy inflicting pain on yourself club ( ftycsiyeipoyc is what i call it , and i do review so many of them . ) so start the revolution without me gets * star . the young-uns : the film contains some sexual references and the end has lots of gun battle . also , some young children may be confused by what is going on . good age : 7 & up 
