millennium starts with an incredibly fake model of a boeing 747 skipping the tops of clouds , bumping all over the place . we go to the cockpit , where the crew is drawling atc clearances , and the captain , for some reason , so senile that he's taking orders from his first officer . inexplicably , the airplane has a mid-air with a dc-10 . on the way down , the flight engineer's sent to the back . he returns as promptly , shouting " the passengers are all dead ! " and thus is the crux of the story . kris kristofferson plays the chief investigator for the national transportation safety board ( ntsb ) . you know he knows his stuff : he looks unkempt , walks like he has more aches and pains than james gardner , and growls out the smallest line . when he smiles , it looks like his face is going to collapse from the effort . clearly an expert . as he investigates the crash , he discovers various oddities : watches that run backwards , for example . and a " thing " that manages to stun him . spoilers are at the end of this article . the above makes the plot sound pretty interesting , right ? wrong * . this is a * horrible * movie . the pits . pure , un- pretentious , regurgitated crap . the acting sucks . the direction sucks . the production values are non-existent . the special effects are laughable . the dialog is lousy , fake , and contrived . technically , the producers clearly haven't the foggiest idea of how the ntsb works ( kristofferson to press conference : " we'll have our findings for you in a couple of days , just hold your questions " ) . the thing which eventually gets kristofferson in hot water with his bosses in washington is sop for the " real " ntsb . cheryl ladd looks like a high-school girl who's just discovered makeup . suffice it to say that this movie isn't worth seeing . five minutes into it , i seriously debated running out and negotiating a ticket-swap with " the package . " this movie is pure trash . a zero rating ( out of four ) . an utterly forgettable movie , one which i am embarrassed to even admit having spent the time watching . but even worse , since about a quarter of the movie is run * twice * , in the form of an alternative-future flashback . so we get to see the same , horrible acting and implausible situations for * 1/2 the running time of the movie * . in other words , yes , folks , we finally have an sf flick this summer that's worse ( * much * * much * worse ) than star trek v ( makes stv look like academy award material , folks ) . 
