new year , new pile of movies straight from the hollywood dumping ground of badly test-screened , obscure , unfunny , and badly acted garbage . double take is the first pony out of the gate . i don't know which is the worst part of the film : eddie griffin's overacting , orlando jones' non-acting , or the ugly mutt that passes as griffin's sidekick . orlando jones does a better job in those 7-up commercials than in the role of darryl chase , an uptight investment banker set up by a combination of the cia , the fbi , a mexican drug cartel , the federales , and an emu farmer as part of a double murder/embezzlement scheme . running from the law , chase changes clothes and identity with freddy tiffany , a two-bit hustler named played by eddie griffin he encounters on the street . together , the pair travel across the country to mexico , where a certain cia agent holds the key to chase's freedom . and of course , during the journey , darryl chase rediscovers his roots as a black man while freddy tiffany shucks and jives his way through every situation like he's the bastard son of eddie murphy and jerry lewis . after numerous car chases , way too many plot " twists , " the aforementioned annoying dog , the bad acting of vivica a . fox , and too many jokes about a glass eye , the movie becomes a science project left in the school refrigerator to rot over the summer . orlando jones , a genuinely talented actor/writer , seems out of place here , annoyed by the film and especially by his costar's lack of acting ability . griffin has the energy of tito puente , the humor of richard pryor , and the acting ability of former seattle seahawks linebacker brian bosworth . jones deserves better material and collaborators . it's a shame that double take is as bad as it is , because this cinematic travesty was written and directed by george gallo , the screenwriter of one of the funniest films of the 1980's , midnight run ( the plot of which bears a striking similarity to this film ) . here are a few bonus facts to consider if you haven't bought my evaluation : the film is based on an obscure 1950's english film starring rod steiger called across the bridge . it took more than a decade to get the green light for production . it describes itself as a cross between " film noir , a thriller , and a comedy . " 
