computer games don't translate well into feature films - just check out mortal kombat , streetfighter , super mario brothers and judge dredd for proof . now you can add to this inauspicious list wing commander , a dull and cliché-ridden futuristic space adventure that makes the phantom menace seem like citizen kane by comparison . set some 500 years in the future , wing commander is a science fiction adventure aimed squarely at undemanding teenage audiences . the plot deals with a confederation attempt to stop an attack on earth launched by the hostile slug-like kilrathi . apparently the kilrathi have gained access to a navigation device that will enable them to launch a surprise attack on the earth . sent to counter this threat are two rookie pilots straight out of military academy and the diligent , a decrepit old trade vessel piloted by the enigmatic paladin ( tcheky karyo , from bad boys , etc ) . the aptly named maniac ( matthew lillard , from scream , etc ) is full of bravado but little actual combat experience . christopher blair ( freddie prinze jr , from she's all that , etc ) carries a vital coded message about the planned invasion . although his father was a legendary hero , blair is not entirely trusted by confederation commanders because of his mixed heritage . their flight commander is deveraux ( saffron burrows , from circle of friends and the upcoming shark thriller deep blue sea , etc ) , a tough-as-nails woman who has forgotten her humanity . chris roberts , who conceived and developed the series of computer games on which the film is based , makes his feature film debut as a director , but his handling of the material is less than emphatic . the special effects are good , but the action sequences lack genuine excitement . one of the key sequences , in which our heroes hide from an enemy fleet that is tracking them by radar , resembles those old w . w . ii submarine movies of yesteryear , a comparison that is enhanced through the stolid presence of jurgen prochnow ( das boot , etc ) . the seemingly hurriedly written script has enough holes to sink a black hole . the hunky youthful cast will certainly appeal to the target audience , even if their enthusiastic , but shallow , performances lack conviction . the international supporting cast of veterans ( prochnow , karyo , david warner and david suchet ) deliver dour , wooden performances that suggest they are uncomfortable acting with the computer generated special effects . they also seem to be having second thoughts about their involvement with this clichéd and unexciting adventure . unfortunately , this is one wing commander that fails to take off ! 
