member of the 'internet movie critics association' http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/studio/5713/index . html where's bob barker when you need him ? seeing him pound adam sandler senseless in 1996's 'happy gilmore' was a scream ( because this guy sucks ! ) and that film along with 1996's 'bulletproof' are the only two films i've enjoyed seeing the amateur comedian in , but just mildly . 'the waterboy' is filled with enough stereotyped comedy to offend everyone and while most people are expected to have at least some sense of humour , this film clearly crosses the line and enough is enough . let's see , we are to believe that everyone in the southern united states is a redneck , a bible thumping fanatic who thinks everyone and everything is the devil , that they all are incoherent when they speak , that they're cross-eyed or just plain backwards . am i from the south ? no . i'm a canadian but it still filled me with a sense of indignity to see such politically incorrect humour taken to the extreme . p . i . humour is fine here and there but not to the point where it scars your equilibrium so you can't think straight after the film is over . in 'the waterboy' , sandler plays a 31-year old water boy for the worst college team in louisiana . he talks with a lisp , and an unappealing southern accent that whines . sandler is no meryl streep or laurence olivier and his attempt at accenting is not acceptable nor is it convincing . he lives with his mother in their bayou home where everything is decorated for the classic southern stereotype . mama ( kathy bates ) believes that girls are the devil and even has her pet donkey tied up in the living room and it drinks from the toilet and hee-haws at will . i'm glad it didn't have to sit through this movie . it seems that dad left many years ago and sandler and his mama are the only ones at home . the players tease and torment sandler as the water boy to the point where he gets himself fired by the redneck coach ( jerry reed ) . sandler gets re-hired by another school football coach ( henry winkler ) to be the team's water boy and after experiencing the same torment from the players the same as in his last job , sandler's boiling point erupts and he tackles one of the players on the field in anger and devastates him . the coach is so impressed he asks sandler to play on the team as a linebacker . he has no clue how to play ball but learns the hard way . he is inspired to play by a girl he always fancied ( fairuza balk ) , a woman with tattoos and a criminal record who mama refers to as the . . . . . well , you know . sandler clearly wants to aim his meager abilities at the under 18 market where a film like this would get an academy award if they had their way . just as in 'happy gilmore' when sandler discovered he had a hidden athletic ability to drive a golf ball 400 yards each time , he finds here that he has a hidden athletic ability to tackle . the only tackling dummy here is the audience as we get our intelligence insulted at every turn and to be fair , while the film does have some good football field action and a few genuine laughs , it's shallow stuff at best . director frank coraci was clearly hired to supervise the editing , sound and other technical mixes because he looks about as capable to direct a movie as a water boy on the set of a movie . no , wait , that's the guy that gets coffee for everyone , isn't it . since sandler co-wrote the film with tim herlihy , it's clear that he called a lot of the film's shots as the film is similar in nature to other films bearing sandler's childish humour . i'm glad 'the waterboy' was released in november as it becomes a fresh minded candidate for one of the worst films of 1998 . by the way adam , the title of your movie , just so you can learn how to spell , is actually two words . some teenagers i'm sure would like to " moon " me for this review but i would consider it a compliment after viewing this mess of a movie . 
