imagine putting both addams family movies together , adding a heap of sexual innuendo , and placing the effects of men in black on top of it . now imagine taking the dry wit out of all these movies , adding an extreme amount of violence , ethnical slurs , and push-up bras . wild wild west , a new creation of barry sonnenfeld , director of get shorty and men in black tries to make it work . . . it doesn't . exactly whose fault it is is yet to be determined , so let me just give you an outline . james west ( smith , who still fits the superhero role nicely , but he's horribly miscast ) is teamed up with effects specialist artemus gordon ( kline , who puts on that fancy-pants know-it-all thing that worked in in & out , but not here ) to save president grant from an 80-foot tarantula created by arliss loveless ( kenneth branagh , who , i'm ashamed to say , should stick with helena bonham carter and shakespeare ) he's using to take over the entire us government turning the northwest into loveliss land . now this could be an original premise , but the film is so darned contrived that you know will smith will win in the end . whereas , arlington road ( a better action/paranoia thriller by about , oh , * * or * * * stars ) had a suprising explosive ending that you couldn't see coming until the very end , this one's obvious at about the 30-minute point . i believe that the filmmakers realized this , so they decided to make the film more fun by adding cool gadgets , heaps of jokes about breasts , tons of violence ( an extreme amount for a pg-13 movie ) and racial and ethnic slurs that sound like their coming from episodes of jerry springer and american history x . this film is not for children and parents should be very cautious about taking them to it . i actually believe that a child would benefit much more from seeing south park : bigger , longer , and uncut , arlington road , or maybe even american pie . thus , i give wild wild west ( the worst movie of the year so far along with virus ) * 1/2 stars . 
