if someone had told me that a movie starring richard gere and sharon stone as a married couple would be low-quality , boring , unsexy , and incongruous in every way , i'd have laughed in his face . know what ? intersection is everything i've just mentioned . gere stars as vincent eastman , a successful architect who runs a joint business with wife sherry , played by sharon stone . vincent is absolutely unhappy with his life and marriage , as he tells a friend , " we weren't a family . we were a corporation with a daughter . " it's easy to see why vincent would want to leave his wife for another woman , the sensual red-head olivia ( played by lolita davidovich ) . he's obviously very in love with his mistress ; vincent plans to build a new home for them , get married , and have children soon thereafter . a terrific beginning . a wonderful set-up . we see vincent driving along a slick road after a rain storm at high speed , letter in hand , smiling . what about ? without giving too much away , during the opening moments of the film , gere's character has made an important decision regarding what he's going to do with the rest of his life . he's on his way in that direction when he slams on the brakes and plows into three different cars before tumbling his own vehicle off the side of the road . that's the story . that and that only . what fills the remaining eighty minutes of the film is flashbacks , lots of them . we see gere with his wife at home and in the office . we see gere with his daughter , gere with work associates , and gere with his mistress . flashbacks and flashbacks . flashbacks intertwined and within one another . after a while it's difficult to tell whether or not anything is actually happening at the time we are watching , in the present . and it's even more difficult to give a damn . this is one hell of a free-form movie . that's fine , if that's the way you want to go with the material , so long as you weed out the unnecessary from the . . . well , in the case of this film . . . not-so unnecessary . give it all some meaning , at least . that's what i would have done , anyway . unfortunately i wasn't in charge of production . i would like to say that intersection is about the memories of a dying man ; the memories of him and the woman he truly loves , and why he wants to be with her and her alone . i can't say it . even when we're sure he loves her , we aren't quite positive . i'd love to say that this movie will entertain you in some fashion , but i can't . what i can say of intersection is that it was almost a complete waste of my time . anything else i could say would be a waste of yours . 
