* sometimes listed as nosferatu the vampiresynopsis : very classy and stylish version of the dracula story . a remake of the classic 1927 film by f . w . murnau , nosferatu . of interest to fans of vampire movies . germany ( german with english subtitles ) , color , 1979 . director : werner herzog principal cast : klaus kinski , isabelle adjani , bruno ganz there is no need to detail the plot of this film , other than to say that it is a very well made version of the classic novel , dracula , by bram stoker . klaus kinski stars as the evil ghoul , count dracula . kinski's dracula has a shaved head , and he wears white make-up for a distinct " ghoulish " appearance . according to the information available to me , the film follows the original novel storyline very closely . as such , it may interest individuals who liked the book , but not the numerous film versions that modify the story ( " rewrite " might be a more accurate description for many of the dracula films ) . the film has a " gothic feel , " and is very well done . there is very careful attention to detail , and the film was shot on location in eastern europe . one attraction of the film is its music , done by the german group popol vuh ( florian fricke , daniel fichelser ) . their music falls into the category that is now called " new age , " although popol vuh began in 1971 as part of the early german electronic music scene . the acting is excellent , although it may be a bit understated . kinski's dracula comes across as a very strange recluse , rather than the flamboyant , arrogant persona evident in other dracula films . this makes the story more " believable . " this film is a staple at many repertory theatres . some theaters screen it several times a year , usually pairing it with more recent vampire films . when i last checked ( fall 1988 ) , it was not available on video , although the 1927 silent version is available on video . overall evaluation : very good . recommended if you want to see a " quality " dracula film . reviewer : thomas e . billings , department of statistics university of california , berkeley reviewer contact : teb@stat . berkeley . edu 
