the 1999 teen comedy she's all that was about a girl with no social life suddenly transformed into a potential prom queen . a full decade earlier , she's out of control was released . it was about a girl who , in the midst of puberty , is transformed into a beauty . the way both films approach this idea differs considerably , and is just one of many factors separating the success of both . tony danza stars as a single father who goes away for vacation and when he comes back , his daughter has blossomed into womanhood , thanks to the help of his henry higgins inspired girlfriend played by catherine hicks . danza is not pleased to see this , and spends the rest of the movie in screwball situations trying to prevent his daughter from having a social life of her own . in she's all that , it wasn't entirely about her looks . the main idea was that she finally started to come out of her shell . her father encourages her to have a social life . the fact that she looks more attractive doesn't even come into play with him . there is something really disturbing about the danza's characters attitude about his daughter . it seems to be a innate fear of sexuality on behalf of the filmmakers . or maybe they just thought it would be funny . in the case of the latter , it's even worse . i'm insulted that these filmmakers would think tony danza in a neckbrace is funny . that very thought is as repulsive to me as anything in the doom generation . there is not one scene in this film that even approaches humor . it's not as if there are missed opportunities , the film can't even set up situations where a laugh would be possible . danza's behavior makes him into a complete jerk , so the audience could barely care about his efforts . and the daughter is only seen from danza's perspective , so there is no way we can warm up to her . basically what we are left with is catherine hicks almost approaching charm . that would account for the half star . other than that , it's just watching an old guy ogling his younger daughter and trying to prevent any boys from getting near her . todd solondz should've directed this . his approach would've been much more interesting . as it is , she's out of control is the worst film of 1989 , hands down . larry mcgillicuddy - the cinemaniac http : //members . xoom . com/lmcgill/movpage . htm 
