seen on 31 december 1997 with tony for free at the loews village viias 007 movies go , * tomorrow never dies * provides is a lively entry with the sexually appealing pierce brosnan in his second outing as the fourth james bond to grace the series . for reasons that are not completely clear to me , i have seen a lot of action/adventure movies this year , but this is the one that * intentionally * made me laugh . unlike american pictures , the brits prove once again that a keen whit can coexist with explosions . i was laughing within the first five minutes , and the mile-high flames ensued about three minutes afterward . in general , if you've seen one 007 movie , you have seen them all . what separates them is the strength of the characters and the execution of the formula . here , media mogul elliot carver ( jonathan pryce ) engineers the makings of world war iii between china and the uk by rearranging gps signals , forcing the chinese to think their waters are being breached , while manipulating the british into thinking they sank their destroyer , when he sank it himself . like most 007 movies , the movie makes the most of location shooting , with a parking garage car chase in hamburg and a helicopter-motorcycle chase in bangkok , after a spectacular fall from an office tower . as james bond , pierce brosnan is probably the most sexually appealing of the actors to play the role of the british agent . he is prone to wearing open denim shirts than tuxedos and suits like his predecessors . the " bond girls " this time around are the horrible teri hatcher as carver's wife " paris , " and the formidable michelle yeoh as chinese agent wai lin . luckily , hatcher disappears after the first reel , and seeing yeoh and brosnan handcuffed together on a motorcycle while being chased by a helicopter was very entertaining . the villains are equally good . pryce is perfectly cast as the billionaire maniac , a 1990s * dr . no * , assisted by the evil stamper ( gutz otto ) , an able successor to 007 villains like jaws or odd job . carver's visage appears in a variety of places throughout the movie , projected on tv screens and hanging from the side of a skyscraper , much like big brother in * 1984 * . also requisite is the 007 gadgetry , and they outdo themselves this time as q ( desmond llewelyn--who has played q since 1964's * goldfinger * ) presents bond with a car he can operate with a finger on a touchpad on his cellular phone . judi dench continues nicely as bond's boss tough m , as does samantha bond as moneypenny . joe don baker appears briefly as a buffoonish american military man . copyright ( c ) 1997 seth j . bookey , new york , ny 10021more movie reviews by seth bookey , with graphics , can be found at http : //www . geocities . com/athens/2679/kino . html 
