filmcritic . com presents a review from staff member james brundage . you can find the review with full credits at http : //www . filmcritic . com/misc/emporium . nsf/2a460f93626cd4678625624c007f2b46/00749ece25ab063e882568de001da736 ? opendocument rarely does a film like screwed come across my desk : a film so utterly easy to insult , from its title on in , that writing the review is an absolute piece of cake . somehow , the producers of this film chose the title screwed over such options as ballbusted , foolproof , and pittsburgh , probably hoping to attract a teenage crowd with its would-been-risque-if-not-for-the-likes-of-s . f . w . title and its screwball norm-macdonald-needs-better-work antics . sadly , this marketing technique will probably succeed and result in , well , a lot of people feeling screwed . screwed concerns a butler ( norm macdonald ) and a chicken wing vendor ( david chapelle ) who team up to try to , well , screw a bitter old hag out of five million dollars . needless to say , the plan goes south , and the two have to run all over pittsburgh ( which is obviously not really pittsburgh ) to get away with their perfect crime . norm sleeps with some girl in a bit part that should have been bigger , david convinces good old norm to fake his death with the help of a mortician ( danny devito ) , and all the while we watch the hag bitch and gripe , not really caring the antics in screwed are childish , the humor pandering to a sub-human chord that will resonate with no one with an iq over 80 . norm macdonald once again shows that the pinnacle of his career will most likely be doing the weekend update on snl ( a shtick which has been stolen and improved upon by `the daily show' on comedy central , a job norm macdonald should campaign for vigorously ) . david chapelle shows that his comedic talents lie in stand up and not physical antics . the pleasure that screwed offers is in the supporting role of devito , which is pretty much only a pleasure because watching devito in such a darkly comic role is so very different from the average part you see him pigeonholed into . screwed is the perfect title for this movie if only because , after watching it , you feel screwed six ways from sunday by virtue of how absolutely wretched this pitiful excuse for a film is . writer-directors scott alexander and larry karazewski , the writing team behind milos forman's last two flicks , man on the moon and the people vs . larry flynt , should probably stick to writing other peoples' movies . behind the camera , they prove that directing is not their strong suit , and that the input that others add to the script proves invaluable to the end product . letting them direct , it seems , just gets a lot of people screwed . 
