( 1995 )  - c : eric roberts , lance henriksen , brion james . a victor salva film . victor salva . hmmm . why does that sound so familiar to me ? victor salva . nope , i can't quite place it . we learn early in the film that there are two criminals on the loose . one has stolen money from the mob , and one is killing everyone he comes into contact with , calling himself " hatchet man " . he's called " hatchet man " because he likes to chop up his victims into little tiny pieces using his hatchet , obviously . the two main characters ( the two only characters really ) meet up and drive around the desert , stopping in hotels and diners along the way . roberts , as an intense drug addict , feels as though he has bonded with businessman henriksen ( who for some reason wears a really fake looking padded stomach to make it look like his character has a pot belly ) , and will not let him wander from his site as they travel through the desert in henriksen's new company car , each alluding to the fact that they know who the other person is . " the nature of the beast " is a letdown , and it seems that writer/director victor salva has no idea how to make a film , whoever he is . one big mistake with the film is the casting . eric roberts is perfectly cast in his role of the shady , dusty drifter , but lance henriksen is not the right man for his character . you see , the script depends on the fact that this character be played by an actor who can portray a bewildered business man-type character and henriksen has played one too many psychos in his career to be able to revert back to this kind of part . he seems demented from the beginning of the film , which makes you start to think more along the lines of the " surprise " plot twist , which if you have only a thimble full of brains you'll be able to figure out . victor salva . wait ! i know ! he's that guy who worked with the " rat pack " films along with sinatra and dean martin ! oh , no that was henry silva . hmmm , well who is this victor salva guy ? it's during the last twenty minutes or so when the film completely falls apart . the " surprise " that you already know and are completely ready for , is just presented on screen casually with no attempt to make it a startling revelation . then at one point , henriksen has gotten so sick of roberts' drug use that he ties him to a chair , injects him with a mix of heroin , cocaine , and alcohol and then watches him die . he then buries him and goes about his business . now about six hours later , roberts digs his way out of his grave , perfectly ok . he then confronts henriksen and starts confessing to him that he's the devil and well , you can't kill the devil now can you ? but , maybe he is the devil and then again maybe not . needless to say , none of it makes any sense . and the final confrontation makes you care about the outcome just like if you were watching a serial rapist and a child molestor fight each other . child molestor ! that's it ! victor salva is that guy who was convicted of molesting the child star of his previous film " clownhouse ! " i knew i knew his name . his crimes are the reason i will never watch " powder " , because there are much more talented directors out there who aren't working who have not been convicted of sexual misconduct with little boys and who deserve the opportunity to work much more than this twisted pervert . man , i wish i had put things together before i sat through this mess . lance henriksen is credited as " creative consultant " during the end credits of the film . he must have thought up the idea of the fake stomach . have a question or comment ? email me at chuckd21@southeast . net-- chuck dowling visit chuck's movie reviews at http : //users . southeast . net/~chuckd21/ over 1 , 500 movies rated and/or reviewed ! movie news , box office reports , film related links , and reader's polls and reviews . 
