first time writer/director neil mansfield contends that art can be found in the everyday lives of ordinary people . he tries to prove his theory with this video diary following a week in the lives of three friends who share a house in the inner sydney suburb of marrickville . kit ( nadine garner ) shares the house with her boyfriend jack ( marin mimica ) , a failed film maker , and her best friend e ( new comer bridie carter ) , a uni student who daily compiles her own personal magazine which she distributes to her small circle of friends . the house is situated under the airport flight path . it is this element that provides a thematic focus that runs throughout the otherwise fragmented and loosely structured film . this is an area that mansfield knows well , and the film is enthused with a passion for the back streets and the residents of this slice of suburbia . mansfield is inspired by the early films of godard and the french new wave , and he tries to duplicate some of that energy here . however , not a lot that is particularly interesting occurs , and this is ultimately a dull and meandering film . some people may find its easy going style charming and endearing , others will merely find it dull . mansfield has coined a new term to describe his low budget semi-autobiographical film - " zinema " - which suits its multi-media format . the film combines the cut and paste methodology of magazines with the flexibility of various different film stocks , and still photography , drawings and other objects that interest the characters . despite the obvious passion displayed by mansfield and his crew , the film itself is rather artlessly constructed . a couple of scenes use a disconcerting method of jump cut editing . every line of dialogue in one scene is obviously cut together from several takes , and this scene is symptomatic of the film's overall lack of rhythm and style . far from a breath of fresh air for contemporary australian cinema , this film comes across as little more than a below average , low budget , experimental effort from a film student . fresh air lacks the charm and winning humour of love and other catastrophes , another local low budget film which used a similar improvised approach , and seems rather stale by comparison . 
