little more than an expensive , flashy , and painfully drawn-out season finale , the x files : fight the future has little chance to draw any new fans to the tv show , if this is the best that can be done . the movie opens with agents mulder ( duchovny ) and scully ( anderson ) finding themselves on a new assignment after the closing of the x-files . of course , through a bizarre coincidence , their very first assignment leads them to uncover a conspiracy involving the hiding of bodies of some would-be aliens . the plot turns alternately confusing and ridiculous after that . it's surprising that a tv show which leaves so much to the imagination does so little for it in feature film version . at two hours , x files is really pretty boring . i found myself falling asleep in the especially dull first half , only to be revived later by one thing after another that * just didn't make any sense ! * for example , if the bad guys went to so much trouble to * blow up a building * in order to hide four bodies , why were the bodies recovered in perfect condition ? why does the road the agents follow on gut instinct alone lead directly to the bad guys ? why did a bee wait 24 hours in scully's coat before stinging her ? why does the syndicate want to destroy the world - and if it has the power ( imminently displayed in the film ) , then why don't they just do it ! ? then again , if a vaccine to this destruction exists ( again , displayed in the film ) , then why don't the good guys just release * that * into the world ? well , you won't find any answers to questions like these in the film . in fact , the movie goes a long way toward undoing the mysteries that the tv show has built up over the last five years . if this is a portent for the way things are going to go next season , i'm not sure i'm interested . still , i am a fan , and there's enough juice to sustain a fan's interest for awhile . it ain't much , but watching scully and mulder inch closer romantically , and seeing some cool special effects is worth the price of admission . 
