the trailer for this low budget , independently financed documentary made it appear as if american movie was a po-faced piss-take on the making of the blair witch project . but it is so much more . the brainchild of chris smith , american movie is a journey through the frustrations and anguish of the low budget film maker . it is enough to either inspire all young hopeful film makers that hope and naiveté can eventually triumph over adversity and inexperience , or else it will send them and their cameras packing fearing that the task of making a low budget film is almost impossible in today's climate . smith documents the trials and tribulations of mark borchardt , an aspiring young film maker from wisconsin , as he tries to get his masterpiece northwestern up and running . to raise the finance for his feature film though he first has to complete work on his short film coven and then sell 3000 units on video . american movie is an up-close and intimately personal portrait of borchardt's struggle , both financially and spiritually , to achieve his dream . this film was nearly three years in the making , as smith followed borchardt around , recording his frustrating efforts to complete his film without compromising his vision or artistic integrity . we follow borchardt through film festivals , trying to hype interest in his project , as well as his endeavours to cast and complete his short horror film . when the going gets tough , borchardt's relatives , including the unforgettable 82 year old uncle bill , come to the rescue , with funding and physical assistance . but the most amazing character we meet here is mike schank , who has provided the film's music as well as doubling as a production assistant . if anyone can come close to stealing a documentary then it is the intriguing schank , whose deadpan style and earnestness are unforced yet endearingly hilarious . the film also blurs the distinction between the film maker and his subjects , as smith and borchardt become friends off camera , adding yet another more intimate dimension to the documentary . so cleverly put together is this off beat film that , at times , it is hard to tell whether american movie is the genuine article or yet another of the increasing series of mock documentaries ( like bigger than tina , etc ) that have recently hit our screens . the background notes certainly make it appear real ! throughout the film smith displays a dry and very droll sense of humour , although not everyone will find the film particularly funny . american movie has an almost unstructured narrative style and many self indulgent passages that will probably appall as many as it pleases . american movie will not be to everyone's tastes . this is a film that you will either love or hate ! 
