in the wake of the columbine shootings , there have been many discussions on the effects that movies have on our young society . the ratings system is obviously not well kept , allowing films like american pie , south park : bigger longer and uncut , and eyes wide shut to pass with r ratings . our television is also becoming more and more violence dominated , with shows like pyromaniacs caught on tape and buxom blondes and their hotels airing on network television nightly . alternative and hard rock bands are ranking high on the charts replacing all of the regular sugar choked pop that normally reigns supreme . but what about one of the most outrageous bands of all time ? kiss , ( gene simmons serves as head producer ) tries to resurrect their career in this movie by trying to bring out a state of teenage rebellion , but let's get back to the young society subject . some politicians are damning every group possible ( the gay community , hollywood , oliver stone ) for destroying family values , they want a better movie , tv , and music rating system , some are even suggesting that concerts be rated . there is one simple answer to all of these issues , not exploiting any person on the face of the planet to this film . this should indeed be labeled with a fair warning of the idiotic badness ( ok , bad and boring word , i admit it ) for all the crude humor and the lessons in everything but the ways to run a family . four members of the band mystery are hanging out in their pad in the seventies and are getting high and playing some good old- fashioned rock and roll . they are all devoted to kiss , they punish anyone who likes disco , and escape the high school security guard on a regular basis . when one of their mothers discovers her son sam is listening to the devil , ( " don't you know what kiss stands for ? " she asks , " knights in satan's service . " ) she is even more shocked to find tickets to see the devil in the flesh and torches her son's tickets in an instant . but not all hope is lost , one of the boys wins front row tickets in a local call in radio station and they decide to break into st . bernard's boarding school where sam in being held and go to the kiss concert . on their way they lose their tickets again and the film follows each of their adventures while trying to score the passes . if i'm correct , they are hundreds and hundreds of people that help contribute and see over a film . the around $8 million budget didn't make any of those hundreds of people make a better film . this is a horrible piece of trash is only occasionally funny because of the amount of risks that it's willing to take for a laugh . in fact , edward furlong is so devoted to kiss , he decides to try and win a male stripping contest and ends up throwing up an entire pitcher of alcohol . the more the film pushes the envelope , the more i found the film belonging to the catergory of " never after columbine . " but it was released afterwards , luckily to a small audience that does not have to undergo the pain and anguish that i experienced . since this review is nice and cheery , and says great things about the movie , i'm sure that you'll want to see it , detroit rock city gets  stars . the young-uns : the film contains very strong language , constant drug and alcohol use , horrible attitudes , violence , lots of sex scenes , and brief nudity . good age : 16 & up a review by frankie paiva the 12 year-old movie reviewer e-mail me at swpstke@aol . com visit my website at : http : //expage . com/page/teenagemoviecritic 
