corky romano ( 2001 ) . starring chris kattan , vinessa shaw , peter falk , peter berg , chris penn , fred ward , richard roundtree , matthrew glave , roger fan and david sheridan . written by david garrett & jason ward . directed by rob pritts . rated pg-13 . approx . 88 minutes . it's too bad . i was all set to blame lorne michaels for another comedic disaster starring a saturday night live cast member when i noticed michaels name does not appear anywhere in the credits . ok , lorne , you're off the hook for this one . but someone needs to take the blame for foisting corky romano on an unsuspecting public . corky romano stars chris kattan , one of the less-than-funny snl cast members , in a movie that hardly qualifies as a comedy . heck , it hardly qualifies as a motion picture . corky romano is an embarrassment , a sloppy , sophomoric feature . kattan plays corky as a combination jerry lewis-jim carrey kind of manchild ; a naive innocent , kind of spastic , an uncoordinated idiot . he is an assistant veterinarian as well as the outcast , youngest son of a reputed crime lord , " pops " romano ( peter falk ) . corky is drafted by the family to infiltrate the fbi and retrieve whatever evidence the bureau has on his dad . of course it is all implausible nonsense , made moreso by the incompetence of kattan's corky , who acts as if he can't even tie his shoelaces . but , only in the movies , through a crooked computer hacker corky is renamed corky pissant and is a full-fledged fbi operative , skilled in five languages , an olympic marksman and just a superman among crimefighters . it numbs the mind to think that screenwriters david garrett and jason ward have such contempt for their audience that they believe any intelligent fbi official would believe a klutzy , nerd such as corky is a special agent . it's insulting and contemptible . the screenwriters' plot is predictable ; everything can be foretold a reel or three before it happens . they don't create any characters , just throw us familiar types . illogical and implausible situations abound throughout . corky romano is not funny and lacks any comedic pacing . plus kattan can't carry the movie . he is funny in small spurts , but he does not have the presence or weight to bolster a feature-length venture . it is sad to see a great actor such as falk reduced to playing such a stereotypical character , nor is there anything funny about illiteracy nor homosexuality , two areas the writers unsuccessfully try to mine for humor , but come up with only pyrite . the only good that may come from this entire folly is to give lorne michaels second thoughts about mounting any features based on some of kattan's snl characters . corky romano is for the dogs , it stinks . it's about as funny as road kill . so , i'd advise you to swerve around it . bob bloom is the film critic at the journal and courier in lafayette , in . he can be reached by e-mail at bloom@journal-courier . com or at bobbloom@iquest . net .  other reviews by bloom can be found at www . jconline . com by clicking on golafayette . bloom's reviews also can be found on the web at the internet movie database : http : //www . imdb . com/m/reviews_by ? bob + bloom 
