heartbreakers ( 2001 ) sigourney weaver , jennifer love hewitt , ray liotta , jason lee , anne bancroft , jeffrey jones , gene hackman , nora dunn , julio oscar mechoso , ricky jay , sarah silverman , zach galifianakis , michael hitchcock . screenplay by robert dunn , paul guay , stephen mazur . directed by david mirkin . 123 minutes . rated pg-13 , 1 star ( out of five stars ) review by ed johnson-ott , nuvo newsweekly www . nuvo . com archive reviews at http : //reviews . imdb . com/reviewsby ? edward + johnson-ott to receive reviews by e-mail at no charge , send subscription requests to ejohnsonott@prodigy . net or e-mail ejohnsonott-subscribe@onelist . com with the word " subscribe " in the subject line . the swirling sick feeling hit me just a few minutes into " heartbreakers . " ray liotta's character was making out with his secretary when his new wife knocked on the door of his office . while scrambling to collect himself , he frantically shouted to her , " just wait a sex – er , i mean sec ! " i was struck by a wave of revulsion , thinking , " geez , didn't lines like that die when 'three's company' was canceled ? " over the next few minutes , as the barely double entendres and lingering cleavage shots grew more numerous , i realized that the mindset behind " heartbreakers " predated " three's company . " suddenly , i had an out-of-body experience as my internal way-back machine swept me to the mid-1960s . all across america , the counter-culture was growing like wildfire , but there was scant evidence of it on tv . while young people were challenging traditional values on the streets , frustrated teenagers like me were stuck at home , sulking while our parents enjoyed the latest bob hope special . women in skimpy bathing suits would prance onscreen while hope made growling noises and leered at their breasts . on another channel , dean martin made wisecracks about " booze and broads " and peter lawford , decked out in love beads and a nehru jacket , purred suggestive one-liners as he ogled the go-go dancers . 
