for more reviews , go to http : //surf . to/joblotv stars tim allen and kirstie alley jump into a cinematic comedy about a rich couple having to deal with the sudden loss of all of their assets . plot : rich , self-absorbed husband and wife team fall into major irs problems , when their accountant steals from their funds , and flees the country . forced to hide from the government until their lawyer gets things settled , the duo crash in on an amish community , and pretend to be long-lost cousins . then , the " hilarity " begins . critique : uninspired , predictable , and mostly unfunny comedy that joins trial and error ( 4/10 ) in proving that for some reason , hollywood executives like to correlate bad comedies with longer run times ( this one clocks in at a little under two hours . ) i never really understood why people in the woods of holly liked to explore the amish community to such an extent in film , and this bad movie does little to resolve my unanswerable query . kingpin ( 8/10 ) successfully stepped through such a community last year , but this movie just doesn't gather any comedy or originality out of this age-old community of people . in regards to the actors , tim allen doesn't add anything to this horrible punch , and alley barely musters any added value , after she spends the first hour and a half of the film whining about her newfound situation . larry miller is actually pretty funny as the overly exuberant irs agent on their tail ( he carries a large gun with him at all times . ) but other than him , the film is basically retreading the old " fish out of water " tale for the umpteenth time , without a whimper of innovation or entertainment . the worst part about this movie is that even the lame attempts at humour are marred by adult content , which disavows any kids from seeing this dud on video . and to top that off , they decide to pull another pseudo-case of my giant ( 6/10 ) and get semi-serious near the end of the film ( this is where we recognize these people as regular folks like you and i with hearts . ) not one laugh out loud joke here . nothing original to add to anything based in amish folklore . actors are very generic in their roles . avoid this one at all costs , and please try to recommend it to those all those people who you deeply despise . by the way , if you do happen to rent it by mistake , at least stay tuned for the outtakes during the end credits . they are actually the only snickerable things in the whole movie ( not a good sign . ) little known facts : in 1978 , tim allen spent 28 months in jail after being arrested for attempted drug dealing . his real name is timothy allen dick . he has nine brothers and sisters . kirstie alley stands 5 " 7 , and is a member of the church of scientology . she was part of tv's " cheers " ensemble cast from 1987 to 1993 . larry miller's most famous role was as the nice rodeo drive salesman to julia roberts in 1990's pretty woman ( 7 . 5/10 ) . director bryan spicer's previous attempt at cinematic humour was the ill-fated mchale's navy . 
