there is a particular kind of pleasure in seeing a really bad movie -- at least you have the advantage of expressing anger , frustration , or resentment --a visceral response of some kind , no matter how unsatisfying that is . don't let me die on a sunday won't even give you the satisfaction of disgust or hatred ; it is simply too dull for that . after a wild techno music party infused with all kinds of sex , drugs and alcohol , a young woman named terese ( élodie bouchez ) arrives at the local morgue : she is pronounced dead from a drug overdose . her beautiful corpse attracts the attention of a gloomy , violent morgue attendant named ben ( jean-marc barr ) , a necrophiliac whose sexual voracity is so powerful it brings the woman back to life . with ben , she discovers an alternative lifestyle -- a subculture of sex fanatics , latex , nipple clamps , and other trappings of a supposedly promiscuous sexual underworld . with this premise , the film could have been realized as a farce or at least black comedy , had it managed to have a drop of humor and panache in presenting such distasteful material . instead , what could have been a wild quest for endless sexual gratification is realized in boring series of catatonic sexual gyrations , completely devoid of fun and pleasure . the film becomes an odyssey of dead people walking : aloof and desensitized , they inhabit the world of dark hallways , sex clubs , morgue corridors , and vast empty spaces . their world is a place in which normal human relationships can't possibly be found : ben and his fellow co-workers escape what they call ordinary life in pursuit of orgies , death worship , petty violence , and emotional vacuum . the most unfortunate of all is that the film treats its material with a straight face and frightening absence of imagination and humor , and -- for those interested in adventuresome french sexual escapades -- without even a slight attempt to be daring or transgressive . even the wonderful élodie bouchez , who won the best actress award at cannes in 1999 for her outstanding performance in the dreamlife of angels can't bring life to this utter nullity of a movie . my feeble attempts to excavate the meaning of love , life , and death out of this morgue land have obviously failed ignominiously . 
