what in the hell is wrong with conteporary hollywood ? don't they realize that almost every single one of their big-budget blockbusters suck ? obviously not , because they just keep on turning out the same , tired ol' run of the mill formula flicks . i mean , just look at the last couple years . this year , we had the latest " batman " flick . what started out as a brilliantly realized , stark , gothic series of great films directed by the master of the macabre himself , tim burton , has turned into a franchise . then they ditched burton and keaton and came out with the sorriest excuse for an action film i have ever had the misfortune of seeing . now , they have a better batman ( george clooney , by the way ) , but some of the stupidest villians in recent memory ( though poisen ivy was great ) . look at the kinds of lines we got : " ice to see you . chill out . " c'mon ! and how can we forget " speed 2 : cruise control " ? they took what is very possibly the greatest action film in the past ten years and spent , like , 170 million dollars ( or something like that ) to make a crap sequel that did about 70 million at the box office ! and then you have the queen of them all : " twister " . okay , don't worry . i'm done ranting and raving about how stupid hollywood is and i'm actually going to start talking about the " film " . " twister " , like i said , is the queen of all crappy summer movies . it has absolutly no character development , no plot twists ( hell , it barely even has a plot ) and basically no script . this is an empty film . and what's sad is that it doesn't even do what it was meant to do . some of my favorite movies are empty films . just look at the films of jackie chan or bruce lee . they have horrible acting and essentially no direction , but they thrilled the hell out of me . those are four star flicks . this is a travesty to the art of film-making . face it : this is not even a fun movie ! even " independence day " , as bad as it was , had at least some redeeming qualities . this has nothing . and what's even more depressing is that they actually could have taken this somewhere if they had just written a decent script . they fx are fantastic and you have some of the best actors and actresses working in hollywood : you've got bill paxton ( " one false move " , " aliens " ) as the storm chaser turned weather man ; jamie gertz ( who was great in " sibling rivalry " ) as his new fiance ; and finally alan ruck ( very under-rated ; just look at " ferris bueller's day off " ) as one of the other chasers . with a cast like that , you should at least have a two-and-a-half to three star movie on your hands . well , jan de bont ( fresh off of " speed " - the film , not the drug ) screws it up royaly . i'm not even going to go into plot details 'cause you all know what it's about and even how it's gonna end . it's that predictible . if you are looking for a good action/adventure film to rent tonight , please look elsewhere . in fact , if you want a good action film , you're going to have to go off the new release shelf and look into the older film of yesteryear . that is where you will find the truly great action films : " aliens " , " lethal weapon " , " the killer " , " enter the dragon " , " jaws " or even ( dare i say it ? ) " mortal kombat " . any of these movies are better than this , or anything else hollywood has put out recently . skip it . check out jason wallis' filmaholics anonymous web page at http : //www . geocities . com/hollywood/boulevard/7475 
