there are so many people that live their lives wanting to become a filmmaker or do something in the film related business . every year they enter our nation's film schools with the high hopes that they too may one day make a movie that will be loved and adored by millions , then make a billion dollars , earn themselves a lifelong career , and start dating a supermodel . but seriously , how often does this type of thing really happen ? 20 dates is supposed to be a movie about a guy that goes on twenty different dates in la and secretly films them to show what real life dating is like . however , i actually found the film to be much more of the man's quest to make his first ever hollywood movie . myles berkowitz is an aspiring filmmaker who's come up with a brilliant idea . he's going to film 20 dates with 20 different women to see what dating and love is really like , instead of what we are usually shown in the movies . his first problem is funding , on what are supposedly secretly taped conversations myles and elie samaha , who's forking over the $60 , 000 to make the picture will only do it if he can hire actresses to go out with him . myles sees this as trying to kill his artistic vision , but he's the producer so sooner or later he will have to agree . as the film ( and a restraining order from a woman who didn't want to be filmed ) go by elie wants more nudity and more sex in the film and refuses to fund it unless tia carrere is in the picture . this troubles myles because he's just met , elizabeth , he's crazy for her and she seems to be marraige material . so myles faces a choice , should he finish the dates and start his movie career , or should he stay with possibly the only woman that he will ever truly love ? yawn . . . for trying to be edgy and interesting , and being unlike regular love stories , this film certainly is what's it's trying not to be . none of the dates myles takes out are all that interesting and as for myles himself , he's so god dang self-involved that i hated him at about the 10 minute point . an interesting concept with a bad result , 20 dates gets  stars . the young-uns : strong language , brief images of strippers in strip clubs , and lots of talk about putting sex and nudity into the picture make up the most worrysome content . good age : 14 & up a review by frankie paiva the 12 year-old movie reviewer e-mail me at swpstke@aol . com visit my website at http : //expage . com/page/teenagemoviecritic 
