what with the special edition out on video ( i snapped up my copy as quickly as anyone ) i thought i'd make some comments on these films . why is star wars as charming and graceful as it is ? why has it endured as well as it has ? with the exceptions of james earl jones and alec guiness , the acting is pretty mediocre . let's just call it corny . ( why , oh why , couldn't lucas use computers to substitute better performers in the lead roles ? ) we never really feel close to the characters . why is it my candidate for the finest pure entertainment ever commited to the screen ? ( it's demeaning to raiders of the lost ark , jaws and the empire strikes back to call them pure entertainments . ) it's not a perfect film , but it's a heck of a good one . many of my friends have a respect bordering on a religious obsession with it . ( my friend adam - who thinks that rotj is the best of the trilogy and tesb is the worst - owns paperback continuations of the movies and soundtracks meant to be played along as you read . ) the film certainly has a place in my heart although i'm not sure i love it as much as they . watching it today i feel manipulated . it hold up over numerous viewings and yet . . . something is missing . to many remaking star wars is what remaking casablanca ( they're doing it ! ) and the godfather is to me : sad and pointless . it would ruin the legend of the movie . yet . . . i'll say it against my better judgment ( and it will anger many people . ) if it's done do it with a new script . have steven spielberg direct . use new music . set it in the future . get rid of the first line ( along time ago in a galaxy far far away . . . ) . cast jack nicholson as darth vader and get rid of the clunky outfit . wait till i get to hollywood ! bwa , ha , ha , ha , ha , ha ! star wars is still terrific fun and wonderfully entertaining . it's a really good movie with a great one inside , struggling to break free . how good is the second installment , tesb ? in a word : magnificent . it's a glorious film from start to finish . in the first shot it tells you what it's going to do and then it does it . a stirring comic book mix of great acting , wonderful music , mature special effects , and dark thoughts , as directed by irvin kershner - with ravishing gusto - the psychological tension is so clear . and did i mention great fun ? it'll sweep you off your feet . so many moments , so many sights . a betrayal , a friendship , a great movie . . . so good that i think i might call it one of the greatest ever made . the special edition is truly special . i could see it once a week without growing tired of it . sadly this cannot be said of rotj , the mediocre conclusion to the trilogy . it's not bad , but it takes a suprising ( and disarming ) turn towards mediocre filmmaking . i've always felt that it goes down too easily , when you should hesitate before accepting the conclusion and outcome . not that it's bad ; it's just not very meaningful . fans of the film will argue with me : " it's not even meant to be meaningful , you take yourself way to seriously , blah blah blah , yada yada yada etc . etc . " . hmm . . . i'm not entirely sure i agree . the entire star wars trilogy revolves around religion ( the force ) , and what can be seen as serious issues ( the battle between good and evil . ) this is a fun movie but it doesn't quite capture the sense of awe and excitement the first two do . it's meant to be seen on a big screen . ( much like gone with the wind , an entertaining but wildy over-rated and equally mediocre film . ) both films are esentially entertainments that could have been alot better then they are . as seen on a big screen rotj is great fun . ( if i had reviewed it after seeing it on the big screen i would have gave it  and b + . ) but i'm talking little screen here - the video experience . and that ain't all that great . i still like the film - but i don't love it . i'm starting to worry that mr . lucas will not live up to our expectations when he releases his new films . perhaps there is no way he can . ( of course such a rule can be defied . i've never like jurassic park but i thought the sequel was well crafted and a heck of alot of fun . ) but whether or not he does tesb is a movie to treasure and the other two aren't all that bad either . 
