 deuce bigalow male gigolo is a very pointed film that doesn't waste any time screwing around from the beginning by continuously firing shots at the handicapped , blind , tall , obese and tourette's syndrome inflicted , all to give the audience the pleasure they seek : morally reprehensible yet hilarious sexual humor . the production is also big where it counts : in the heart . this gigolo is well worth the $8 price of entry . deuce bigalow ( rob schneider ) has mastered his trait to a point where he swims with the fishes- literally . a knowledgeable yet sexually deprived fish tank cleaner , the highlight of deuce's day is getting a sales girl to bend far enough over a water-filled tank that her white shirt becomes transparent . but he soon learns that antoine laconte's fish has developed a rare gill disorder . aside from being one of deuce's clients , antoine is a male whore preparing to leave the country on business . soon the title character is fish-sitting in a mansion and , predictably enough , finds himself having destroyed the $6000 mini-aquarium that he is supposed to be looking after . the race is on for him to buy a new one before antoine returns home , and there is only one way he is going to come up with that much money that quickly : the same way antoine does . rob schneider is a member of the saturday night live ( snl ) class that produced stars like adam sandler ( who produced this movie ) , chris farley , david spade , norm macdonald ( who has a cameo ) and mike myers . of the group , schneider is most similar to sandler with his ability to play an average ( or below average for that matter ) joe who happens to be in the right ( or wrong ) place at the right ( or wrong ) time . schneider also exhibits a sandler-sized heart here when he falls in love with a " client " named kate ( arija bareikis ) . but schneider is yet to peak , and if this movie isn't a hit you may never hear his name again , let alone with such prestigious company as the above . so , just how far does this movie push the envelope sexually ? well , it makes the old snl skit " fred gervan : male prostitute " seem tame and this summer's hit film american pie seem like deep throat ( not the nixon informer ) . a police officer pulls down his pants numerous times and complains about his skinny member but no genitalia is ever shown and a pornographic film appears on television but only the sound is indicting . deuce's adventures are relatively innocuous beyond some spanking and condom use , but you shouldn't forget that this is a movie about a gigolo . deuce bigalow male gigolo will likely make a tidy profit from teens seeking its services on weekend nights . the movie needn't worry about getting rushed out of theatres as it will quickly go in video stores where a significant number of people will probably jerk it off the shelf and take it home for hours of private entertainment . running at close to two hours , the film isn't too long to cause pain nor too short to not get the job done . 
