it seems to me that critics and audiences have become so tired of the same old kind of movies , that they now turn to anything remotely different and acclaim it as though it were the greatest film ever made . this would seem to be the case with " the blair witch project " . while certainly innovative , and contains a few genuinely creepy scenes , most of the film seems to revolve around watching three teens bicker out in the woods . three students set out for a small town in maryland which is home to a legend , the legend of the blair witch . first interviewing the townspeople , they eventually decide to head into the woods to find the site of the witch's killings . the three travel through the woods for days , becoming lost and eventually turning on each other . the whole time , something in the woods stalks them . leaving small symbols at first , the stalker becomes more and more bold and eventually openly attacks , dragging one off in the night . it seems that the majority of people feel fully one way or another about this film . either they think it's one ofthe greatest ever made , or is an utter piece of garbage they can't believe they were dragged to . i , on the other hand , am fairly divided about this movie . as i said earlier , it's a truly innovative film . shot entirely as though it were lost footage shot with a home camera , it does seem quite realistic . however , if you suffer easily from motion sickness , stay far away . there are also a few scenes which are quite eerie . the two that stick out most in my mind are the conclusion , and a scene where the group stumbles across hundreds of figures made out of sticks in a section of woods . now , on to the items that really couldn't stand . one thing which i simply can't believe , is that while running terrified through the woods , with some horrible thing chasing them , the kids would actually keep the camera held at eye level ! the other major problem was that between nights in the tent , when the creature in the woods harassed the group , they spent the days arguing on and on . i saw some people in the theatre begin to doze off in these scenes . some truly creepy scenes which are plagued by stretches of boring dialogue earns this movie three stars , and a reccomendation to wait for video ( but watch it with the lights off to get the true effect ) . * * * * * - one of the greatest movies ever made , see it now . * * * * - great flick . try and catch this one . * * * - okay movie , hits and misses . * * - pretty bad . see it if you've got nothing better to do . * - one of the worst movies ever . see it only if you enjoy pain . e-mail with comments at : jabii@aol . com 
