pleasantville  it was once said that ignorance is bliss . but how can you know bliss while ignorant ? if you know not sorrow , you know not happiness , and vice versa . such is the story of pleasantville , a movie that's , quite frankly , inspired . the story of a 1950's town who's long lasting ignorance is challenged by modern day pop culture . the result of society's ultimate reaction to change . in today's world , we treat life loosely , with little value . many consider material things to be more valuable than long term happiness , and simply obtain them to fill such holes of loss and greed . others search for a happier time and place , and secretly hope for a return to our past . a time many call safer , better , more compassionate . two such examples are modern day teens david ( tobey maguire ) and jen ( reese witherspoon ) . while david regularly drowns out his chaotic reality by immersing himself in reruns of the 1950's sit-com , pleasantville , sister jen lusts after cute boys as an admitted slut , climbing the social ladder through sex appeal . but , as jen prepares for a date with mtv , and david for his much anticipated pleasantville marathon , a doorbell is rung . a strange , unrequested tv repairman ( don knotts ) gives them a remote to replace their recently shattered one , after quickly quizzing david as to his knowledge of pleasantville . after his departure , the two teens quarrel in an effort to win the remote . during the fight , a button is pushed , and the two are transported into the very fictional , very colorless world of pleasantville . david , realizing that if they wish to get out soon they can't tinker with the mindset of pleasant-folk , urges jen to do the same , and play along . while she starts out well , she quickly loses her balance , creating a domino effect of immense proportions , after introducing the element of sex to the quirky little town . soon , the black and white universe begins to sprout color . among the newly enlightened , the perfect pleasantville mother , betty ( joan allen ) . but , it's not just about sex . color can appear as a result of love , compassion , anger , or hate . it is about individuality , the free agency to choose between what is right and what is wrong , rather than stay confined to a " normal " and supposedly perfect world . we cannot become perfect by force , but must be allowed to make mistakes , and strive to ascertain it through correction and discipline . one of the film's few missteps hits when it fails to actively portray some of the unfavorable consequences that can result from such promiscuous behavior , as our society learned quickly after the sexual revolution of the 1960's . though it maintains the absurdity of racism , another immorality . and while , throughout the film , director gary ross may trip a bit with his " hang on a sec while i beat you over the head with my message so hard you won't soon forget it " strategy , such as the inclusion of signs stating " no coloreds " , it does work , something that is a credit to his history as a screenwriter . he's also assembled a very capable cast , including supporting actors jeff daniels ( dumb & dumber ) , william h . macy ( fargo ) , and the late j . t . walsh ( breakdown , jfk ) , as well as the two leads and allen ( face/off ) . the cornerstone of the movie , the gradual inclusion of color as the town progresses , also has a wide range of integrity , and is constructed with great subtlety and detail . it alone is a good reason to see the film . the bottom line is that pleasantville is a fantastic vision of our society as its progressed , and while many may still hope and remember the " good old days " , we always must focus ahead on what will be , not what could've been . 
