rated pg-13 starring kevin kline , michelle pfeiffer , rupert everett , stanley tucci , calista flockhart , anna friel , christian bale , dominic west , david strathairn , sophie marceau based on the play by william shakespeare written and directed by michael hoffman there really is no need for me to mention it , but shakespeare is hotter than ever . shakespeare in love won best picture , and more than a few teen movies are using the bard as inspiration . we knew it wouldn't be long before we had another period piece shakespeare adaptation . the film is michael hoffman's rich , opulent adaptation of william shakespeare's a midsummer night's dream . this version of a midsummer night's dream moves the setting to italy towards the end of the 19th century . it is the story of one night when all sorts of unexpected twists occur involving a few couples falling in and out of love . demetrius ( christian bale ) , is set to be wed to hermia ( anna friel ) , who actually is in love with lysander ( dominic west ) . since hermia doesn't want to be forced into unwanted wedlock , she runs away into the forest with lysander . but that is not before they tell helena ( calista flockhart ) , who is starved for demetrius' affection , of their plans . helena then tells demetrius of their flight , and he rushes into the forest , followed by helena . it is there that all four of them encounter puck ( stanley tucci ) , a fairy who administers a love potion that will make a person fall in love with the next person he sees . puck also works his magic on the fairy queen ( michelle pfeiffer ) , who falls in love with an actor ( kevin kline ) who is turned into a donkey , while the fairy king ( rupert everett ) makes some observations of his own . michael hoffman ( one fine day , restoration ) works wonders with a superb ensemble cast ; the standouts being pfeiffer , kline , and calista flockhart , who takes a step away from " ally mcbeal " . the film is shot wondrously on location by oliver stapleton ( the grifters , one fine day ) , who makes the play seem anything but stagy . a midsummer night's dream is a fine film , but if there is a problem to be mentioned , it is the film's length . at 115 minutes , the movie is too long to just be taken as a light comedy , and there isn't much in the way of drama to hold a viewer's attention . although i am unfamiliar with the play , there doesn't seem to be much original work added to this production , despite the change in location . but all in all , a midsummer night's dream is a funny , lush tribute to the bard's greatness . . . and newfound popularity . a review by akiva gottlieb , the teenage movie critic akiva@excite . com http : //www . angelfire . com/mo/film watch me on tbs' " dinner and a movie " may 21 , 8 : 05pm est get your free , private email at http : //mail . excite . com/ 
