from the moment i saw trailers for lost in space , i knew i would probably like it . i am a junky when it comes to `90s science fiction , especially star trek and the x-files . now , after watching the dvd of lost in space , i can say that none of my expectations for the film were bashed . okay , space is not a very good film , but it kept me entertained for two hours . this is the film that knocked titanic off the top spot on the box office charts earlier last year . the movie adaptation of the schlocky `60s television series . the show was a cheesy bore . the movie version is the same thing , but , with lively visuals and a nice cast . it's amazing what special effects can do for a film ; space is a mighty achievement in brain candy . the story tells of the ( space ) family robinson , who's goal is to travel to a distant planet ( i forget the name ) to make sure it can be colonized , for earth will not last two more years , in the year 2043 . this is the only movie to feature a whole family , even the 10-year old kid , as scientists and astronauts . when the robinsons launch to space , a scientist ( gary oldman ) , who was hiding in the ship's bowels , takes over the controls , while the family are in hibernation , and accidentally send the ship to a different galaxy through some space-gate or whatnot . lost in space suffers from the usual hollywood cliches and over the top action scenes that completely destroyed films like armageddon and con air . but , it does have a nice sense of adventure not found in many sci-fi movies anymore . but , i have seen a number of better sci-fi films within the past two years , including the x-files , star trek : insurrection , event horizon , and sphere . plus , the movie kept switching from kid-friendly fluff to scary monster flick . the dvd features a number of fascinating tidbits , including a music video ( for the annoying song that plays during the end credits ) , original cast interviews , a director commentary , and special effects featurette . however , i was very disappointed with the soundtrack . low and unspectacular . 
