starring-sean connery , catherine zeta-jones , ving rhames and will pattonmovie views by jamey hughton : http : //welcome . to/movieviewsanyone who says sean connery is getting too old for action movies hasn't seen his latest movie . connery will always be remembered as the definitive james bond , and in entrapment , part of the fun is watching him replay certain shades that made his portrayal of the famous spy so popular . his age is starting to show , but you have to hand it to mr . connery , because he sure is a good sport . in entrapment he plays mac , a master thief with high-tech gadgets for scaling buildings and stealing antique rembrandts for his personal collection . he catches the eye of an insurance agent ( ! ! ) named gin baker , catherine zeta-jones . with the news that a priceless chinese mask is being displayed in a london museum , zeta-jones knows that mac won't be able to resist the chance to snatch it . so she tracks him down and poses as a thief , proposing that the two become partners in crime and attempt the daring heist . of course , her boss ( will patton ) wants her to bring mac in afterward . but carefully predicting the pattern of their meetings , you can surely guess that their relationship will escalate to something more than business . zeta-jones is 29 , and connery is now 68 . with this enormous age differential , can the stars still create believable chemistry ? the answer is a surprising yes . director jon amiel plays their relationship on a different level than just a love story , in fact , he stages their confrontations like they were father and daughter . if this is simply a massive error , then it was a turn for the better , because this way the stars are given more breathing room and their chemistry is still believable . in one scene toward the end , when the two burglars separate , you realize that you actually care about their situation . even if he could play her grandpa . one disappointement is the use of the supporting cast . ving rhames is once again electric and involving , as one of mac's former partners , but he is criminally underused with his undemanding role . maury chaykin hams it up as a budha-like art dealer . will patton has little to do playing zeta-jones' boss . amiel also uses a fade-out approach to end many of his scenes , which gets very repetitive very quickly . but , entrapment is still an exciting heist adventure that glides along smoothly after a bumpy first hour . the final robbery that the duo pull , an 8-billion bank caper on the eve of the millenium , is simply terrific . i never even glanced at my watch through the two-hour running time . catherine zeta-jones gives a flawed but luminous performance , and connery is just a lot of fun to watch . reports indicate he may return once more as james bond . no matter how old he is then , i'll probably still buy it . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . movie views by jamey hughton : http : //welcome . to/movieviews 
